MANAGING RESEARCH ASSETS

*Find this handout, along with links and additional notes, at
http://bit.ly/researchassets*

##### 

##### PRESERVING YOUR DIGITAL ASSETS

The Library of Congress offers guidelines for preserving digital
material, including photographs, audio, video, email, digital records,
and websites.

See http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/you/

For a more technical and specific discussion of digital formats, see the
Library of Congress’s “Sustainability of Digital Formats”:
http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/

In general, you should:

-   **Identify**: Make an audit of what you have.

-   **Decide** which of your assets you want to keep and which you
    don’t need.

-   **Organize** your assets: Give them descriptive filenames, organize
    them into a logical file structure, and write down your
    organizational scheme.

-   **Make copies**. It’s a good idea to have copies in a number
    of locations. Every few years, check your copies to see if you need
    to export them to a newer format.

##### DEVELOPING A DIGITAL RESEARCH WORKFLOW

There’s no “right” research workflow. The practice that makes sense for
you will depend on your own research habits and the kinds of material
you work with. As you investigate tools, think about:

-   **Capturing**. Do you do most of your research online, in an
    archive, or at the library? You’ll need a tool (or tools) that’s
    appropriate for the way you really work and easily captures the data
    you need in a format that’s preservable — and preferably in a way
    that’s organized.

-   **Metadata**. Few things are more frustrating than locating just the
    information you need but not being able to determine its origin.
    That’s why it’s important to think about how you’re capturing
    information *about* each asset you gather, like its source and its
    importance to your research.

-   **Searching and retrieving.** None of this does you any good if you
    can’t get your hands on the data you need when you need it. Metadata
    will help you find the right stuff, but you may also want to think
    about tools for OCR (optical character recognition) and for
    “fuzzy” searching.

You should also be thinking about whether and how you can **export your
data**. That may seem boring now, but it won’t when the tool you’re
using becomes obsolete!

##### TOOLS TO CONSIDER

**Backup Tools**

*Yes, you need to be doing this. Why are you not doing this? Do it right
now! Think about whether you want to store your backup on a hard drive
or in the cloud — or both!*

-   Time Machine (Mac, already installed on your computer, automatically
    backs up your data to a hard drive at scheduled intervals)

-   Windows Backup and Restore (Windows, already installed on your
    computer, backs up your data to a hard drive at scheduled intervals)

-   Mozy (Mac and Windows, \$5.99/month, backs up your data remotely at
    scheduled intervals)

-   BackBlaze (Mac and Windows, \$5/month, backs up your data remotely
    at scheduled intervals)

-   SpiderOak (Mac and Windows, free or \$100/year, backs up your
    data remotely)

-   DropBox (Mac and Windows, free or \$10–\$20/month, backs up your
    data remotely)

**Bibliographic Management**

*There are a lot of good options out there for saving, sorting, and
citing your sources. The key point is that you really should be using
some kind of bibliographic management system. You’ll regret it if you
don’t.*

-   Zotero (Mac and Windows, free)

-   EndNote (Mac and Windows, \$249.95)

-   Mendeley (Mac, Windows, and Linux, free)

-   Sente (Mac, \$89.95)

-   Bookends (Mac, \$69)

**File Renaming and Organization**

*If, for example, you take a lot of photos in an archive, you probably
come home with tons of files with totally unintelligible names. Several
tools can help you organize these assets and give them human-readable
names.*

-   NameDropper (Windows, \$10, batch renamer that allows you to
    set patterns)

-   Belvedere (Windows, free, allows you to set rules to rename and
    organize files)

-   Hazel (Mac, \$21.95, allows you to set rules to rename and
    organize files)

-   Automator (Mac, already installed on your computer, allows you to
    perform many actions on your files)

**Indexers and “Everything Buckets”**

*Depending on how you work, you may find it important to grab and tag
things — from the Internet or from “real life” — quickly and easily.
There are some very good tools for this. Be careful, though: It’s not
enough to grab something. You have to be able to find it again, too!*

-   EverNote (Windows, Mac, Android, and iPhone; free or \$45/year;
    captures and tags Web pages, photos, and other documents)

-   Yojimbo (Mac and iPhone, \$38.99, capture and tag notes
    and documents)

-   Voodoo Pad (Mac and iPhone, \$39.96, capture and tag notes
    and documents)

-   SOHO Notes (Mac and iPhone; \$39.99; capture, tag, and organize
    notes and documents and create custom forms)

-   DEVONthink (Mac and iPhone; \$49.95; indexes your files, allows you
    to organize them and add notes and metadata, offers
    “fuzzy” searching)

**Databases**

*An “everything bucket” is a database, of course, but sometimes you need
a tool that structures your data, too. Structure is great, but you
should also be honest with yourself about whether the tool will fit
easily into your workflow.*

-   askSam (Windows, \$149.95, designed to make database-creation quick
    and easy)

-   Microsoft Access (Mac and Windows, \$139.99)

-   FileMaker Pro (Windows, \$179.00)

-   Bento (Mac, \$49.00)

**Optical Character Recognition (OCR)**

*Your sources become much more findable when your run OCR on them. Of
course, depending on the kinds of sources you gather, OCR may be
imperfect (or impossible).*

-   ABYY FineReader (Windows and Mac, \$49.99 and \$99.99, respectively)

-   Adobe Acrobat Pro (Windows and Mac, \$404.10)

-   OCRopus (Mac and Linux, free)

-   EverNote (see above; EverNote automatically performs OCR on
    your documents)

-   DEVONthink (see above; DEVONthink automatically performs OCR on
    your documents)
